[doc] Full GUI userguide rewrite (#3080)
Ericsson/codechecker: web/server/vue-cli/src/assets/userguide/userguide.md

> ==========

Reviewer: Should we highlight that this is the user guide for the web UI?

Maybe links from here to the CLI user guide or from the CLI user guides to here would be good.

**CodeChecker** is a static analysis infrastructure built on the [LLVM/Clang
Static Analyzer](http://clang-analyzer.llvm.org) toolchain, alternative tool
for [`scan-build`](http://clang-analyzer.llvm.org/scan-build.html) in a Linux
or macOS (OS X) development environment.

<div class="github">More descriptions and guides available

> <a href="https://github.com/Ericsson/codechecker/blob/master/README.md">

Reviewer: This link points to a missing page.

    * [Unique reports](#unique-reports)
  * [Compare mode](#compare-mode)
    * [Compare two different runs](#compare-runs)
    * [Compare two different tagged versions of the same](#compare-tags)
  * [Manage source components](#manage-source-components)
* [Report details](#report-details)
  * [Report navigation tree](#report-navigation-tree)
  * [Button pane](#button-pane)
     * [Report info](#report-info)
     * [Show documentation](#show-documentation)
     * [Change review status](#change-review-status)
  * [Same reports](#same-reports)
  * [Bug path view](#bug-path-view)
  * [Comment](#comment)
* [Statistics](#statistics)
  * [Statistics pages](#statistics-pages)
    * [Product overview](#product-overview)
    * [Checker statistics](#checker-statistics)
    * [Severity statistics](#severity-statistics)
    * [Component statistics](#component-statistics)
  * [Filtering statistics](#filtering-statistics)
    * [Uniqueing checker statistics](#checker-statistics-uniqueing)

# Products
The product system allows a single CodeChecker server to serve multiple
separate result databases, named `products`, under the same IP address and

> authentication domain. Each product has an individually configured database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
authentication domain. Each product can be configure to use a separate database
```

> and the access control can be controlled by product which are managed by
> product administrators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and the access control can be configured separately for each product by the product administrators.
```

[bitcoin](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin) or
[openssl](https://github.com/openssl/openssl) repositories.

**Note**: comparison and statistics features can be used inside one product and
not between multiple products.

![Products](images/products/products.png)

In the product list table you can see the following information:
- `Product name`: display name of the product.
- `Description`: short description of the product.
- `Administrator names`: product admins have the right to allow access for
individual people or LDAP groups. 
- `Number of runs`: number of runs in the product.
- `Latest store to the product`: date of the latest run storage.
- `Run store in progress`: show run names if a storage is in progress.
- `Action buttons` (only for ADMINS): .

**Note**: if you don't have permission for a product and you see the following
message, ask permission from a product admin:

![Products](images/products/no_permission.png)

## Managing products
### Add new product
Click to the *NEW PRODUCT* button above the product list table, then fill the
form presented. The values that need to be filled here are the same as the
arguments for `CodeChecker cmd products add`.

> **NOTE**: only users with `Super Users` access can add new product.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**NOTE**: only users with `Super Users` access can add a new product.
```

> ![New product](images/products/new_product.png)

Reviewer: maybe a screenshot without your userid?

If the product creation is successful, the window will disappear and the
product will appear in the product list.

#### Disable review status change
Review status change can be disabled on the WEB UI to force programmers to use
inline source code comments. This can be configured on the product editing
window by administrators of a product.

![Disable review status change](images/products/disable_review_status_change.png)

> ### Edit existing product

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Edit product configuration
```

> Editing a product is done through the pencil icon which can be found in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Editing a product configuration is done through the pencil icon which can be found in the
```

> latest *Actions* column of the product list table. This window lets you edit
> the product's configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
latest *Actions* column of the product list table.
```

![Edit product](images/products/edit_product.png)

### Remove a product

> Products can be deleted by clicking on the red trash bin in the latest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Products can be deleted by clicking on the red trash bin in the
```

*Actions* column of the product list table. This way the product is only
unmounted from the server (losing access control data and connection), but

> **no analysis results are deleted**.

Reviewer: Please add a note that the database needs to be deleted/removed separately.

![Remove product](images/products/remove_product.png)

## Managing permissions
* Server-wide permissions can be edited by clicking *EDIT GLOBAL PERMISSION*
button above the product list page. Only users with `Super Users` access can
edit global permissions.
* Product-level permissions can be edited by clicking the edit icon
(blue pencil) for the product you want to configure the permissions.

The two lists show the users and groups known to the system - if a tick is
present in its row, the given user or group has the permission directly
granted. (Users who only have a certain permission through permission
inheritance are not shown with a tick.)

![Product permissions](images/products/product_permissions.png)

Only the permissions you have rights to manage are shown.

You can edit multiple permissions opening the window only once. Simply tick or
untick the users/groups you want to give the permission to or revoke from them.

> Clicking *OK* will save the changes to the database.

Reviewer: There is no `OK` just a `save` button.

## Notification banner
There is an option to set a global notification text, that will show on top of
every page below the header bar.

![Notification](images/products/notification.png)

You can edit this alert on the products page with `EDIT ANNOUNCEMENT` button,
but **Super User** permissions are necessary.

![Products](images/products/edit_announcement_btn.png)

You can remove the current notification by saving an empty text.

![Notification Dialog](images/products/notificaiton_dialog.png)

# Runs and history events
## Runs
A run represents the same analysis activity for the same source code with the

> same analysis settings (CTU, non-CTU). We are storing analysis results to a

Reviewer: instead of the CTU or non-CTU probably mentioning the checker configuration would be more understandable for the users (CTU is very clang static analyzer specific feature)

the run. You can find more information how to see the description
[here](#show-description).
  - `Check command` which was used to analyze your project. You can find more
  information how to see the check command [here](#show-check-command).
  - `Detection status counts`: show the number of reports distributed by
  detection statuses.
- `Number of unresolved reports`: number of non unique reports excluding
*Resolved*, *False positive* and *Intentional* reports.
- `Analyzer statistics`: information about the analysis. You can find more
information how to see the analysis statistics
[here](#show-analyzer-statistics).
- `Latest storage date`: latest storage/update date of the run.
- `Analysis duration`: the length of the analysis.
- `CodeChecker version` which was used during the analysis.
- `Diff`: in this column you can select two runs (*baseline* and
*compared to*) which will be compared to each other by click on the *DIFF*
button. For more information [see](#compare-runs).

### Show description
Description is a custom textual description to be shown alongside the run and
given by the `CodeChecker store` command:
```sh
CodeChecker store \
  --name master_xerces \

>   --description "This is my demo run." \

Reviewer: On the example image some different description is visible, not what was set here in the command example.

![Show description](images/runs/show_description.png)

### Show check command
Check/Analyze command is the command which was used to analyze your project:
```sh
CodeChecker analyze \
  -o ./reports \
  -e sensitive \
  ./compilation_database.json
```

Click on the console button under the run name to show the check command.

![Show check command](images/runs/show_check_command_btn.png)

![Check command](images/runs/check_command.png)

### Show analyzer statistics
The analyzer statistics shows the following information for each analyzer
(Clang Static Analyzer, Clang Tidy):
- Analyzer version.
- Number of successfully analyzed files.
- Number of files which failed to analyze.
- List of files which failed to analyze.

Click on the *Analyzer statistics column* to show analyzer statistics for a
run.
![Show analyzer statistics](images/runs/show_analyzer_statistics_btn.png)

![Analyzer statistics](images/runs/analyzer_statistics.png)

If you have failed files you have incomplete results. The reason can be a
crash, source code incompatibility, clang compatibility, etc.

### Filter runs
You can filter runs by run name using the input box above the run list table.

> The filter is **case insensitive** and doing a **substring matching**. If we

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The filter is **case insensitive** and does a **substring matching**. If we
```

start typing some phrase in this input box, the list are being
*filtered automatically*.

![Filter runs](images/runs/filter_runs.png)

**NOTE**:
- other filters in beside the run name filter can be used to filter
run history events.
- filters will be saved in the URL query parameter list.

### Compare runs

> Calculates difference between two analyses of the project, showing which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calculates the difference between two analyses of the project, showing which
```

- `Analyzer statistics`: information about the analysis. You can click to this
section to see the details.

![Run history](images/runs/show_run_history.png)

### Compare run history events
Calculates difference between two analyses of the same run storage, showing
which reports have been fixed and which are newly introduced.

To compare analysis history events you have to do the following:
- select *BASELINE** runs with the first checkbox in the *Diff* column of the
run list table for a history event.
- select *COMPARE TO** runs with the second checkbox in the *Diff* column of
the run list table for a history event.
- click on the `Diff` button above the run list table.

### Filter run history events
You can filter run history events with the tag name and storage date input
boxes above the run list table.

![Filter run history events](images/runs/filter_run_history_events.png)

*Note*: the filters will be saved in the URL query parameter list.

# Reports
If you select a run at the [list of runs](#runs) view, you get to this page.
This page lists the analysis result for the given run.

![Reports](images/reports/reports.png)

Every report has the following fields:

> - `Report ID`

Reviewer: Where is the `Report ID` on the picture?

- `Unique report identifier` (repot hash). You can find more information how
these hashes are generated [here](https://github.com/Ericsson/codechecker/blob/master/docs/analyzer/report_identification.md).
- `File path`: file path where the report is found.
- `Line and column numbers` of the report where the bug is.
- `Checker name` which found the report during the analysis.
- `Checker message`: description about the report.
- `Analyzer name` which found the problem during the analysis.
- [`Severity`](#severity-levels)
- `Bug path length`: length of the bug path. Reports with longer bug path
are more difficult to understand.
- [`Latest review status`](#review-status)

> - [`Latest detection status`](#detection-status)

Reviewer: At the picture the reports are listed in uniqueing mode where these details are not visible and the detection/fix dates are only visible if I hover over the detection status icon.

This is really a bug.
- <span class="customIcon review-status-false-positive"></span>
**False positive**: This is not a bug. Before marking a bug false positive
you should read the [false positive how to](https://github.com/Ericsson/codechecker/blob/master/docs/analyzer/false_positives.md).
- <span class="customIcon review-status-intentional"></span> **Intentional**:
This report is a bug but we don't want to fix it.

![Review statuses](images/reports/review_statuses.png)

Review statuses are connected to
[report hashes](https://github.com/Ericsson/codechecker/blob/master/docs/analyzer/report_identification.md).
If the same report can be found in multiple runs it will have the same review
status.

It can be changed on the [GUI](#change-review-status) or by using
[source code comments ](https://github.com/Ericsson/codechecker/blob/master/docs/analyzer/user_guide.md#source-code-comments)
(*codechecker_false_positive*, *codechecker_confirmed*, etc.)

**Note**: source code comment is stronger and can overwrite the value in the
database

## Detection status
The detection status is the state of a bug report in a run.

> storing the results of a run from scratch then each report has	

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

- The detection status of a report is connected to the **report ID**. It means
that every report has a separate detection status.

> - It will be *calculated automatically* by the server on run storage events.

Reviewer: Please add a note that the detection status is calculated based on the reports in the last storage and the current storage.

in the top-right corner of this chart.
- Component statistics table grouped by severity levels. Each row can be
expanded which will show a checker statistics for the actual component.

### Checker statistics
Shows the number of reports grouped by checker names.

![Checker statistics](images/statistics/checker_statistics.png)

### Severity statistics
Shows the number of reports grouped by severity levels.

![Severity statistics](images/statistics/severity_statistics.png)

### Component statistics
Shows the number of reports grouped by source components.

![Component statististics](images/statistics/component_statistics.png)

Each row can be expanded by using the `^` button beside the component name. It
will show a checker statistics table for the selected component.

![Component statististics](images/statistics/component_statistics_expanded.png)

## Filtering statistics
We can get statistics only for specified runs, files, checker names etc. by
using the filter bar.

For more information [see](#filtering-reports)

### Uniqueing checker statistics
The same bug may appear several times if it is found on different execution

> paths, i.e. through different function calls. By checking **Unique reports** a

Reviewer: Please add a link to the report uniqueing description from here.

- <span class="customIcon icon-severity-style"></span> **Style**:
*modernize-raw-string-literal*, *modernize-use-auto*, etc.
- <span class="customIcon icon-severity-unspecified"></span> **Unspecified**:
*android-cloexec-dup*, etc.

![Severity levels](images/reports/severity_levels.png)

## Filtering reports
When opening the Reports list view on the left sidebar you will see the
following:

![Report filters](images/reports/filters.png)

The following filter options are available:
- [`Unique reports`](#unique-reports) - You can uniqueing the reports by
checking this. For more information [see](#unique-reports).
- **Baseline**
  - `Run / Tag Filter` - You can select one or more run names with tags. The
  result list is restricted on the findings in these runs/tags. By selecting a
  specific run in the *runs* view this field is filled by default.
  When runs are stored in update mode (i.e. on the same run name), then the
  specific runs can be tagged in order to be easier to identify them. By this
  field you can also select the reports found during a specific run event. For
  this you can use the cogwheel button beside each run after hovering on the
  run to specify a tag.

>   - `Outstanding reports on a given date`**` - Filter reports that were

Reviewer 2: Does this render correctly? There seems to be an extra backtick.

  want to compare against the baseline filter set.
  - `Outstanding reports on a given date` - Here you can select date which
  you want to compare against the baseline filter set.
  - `Diff type` - Here you can set if you'd like to see the reports which
  appear only in the **Baseline**, **Compare to** or both.
- `File path`: You can choose a set of files to restrict the list of bug
reports.
- `Checker name` - If you are interested in specific type of bugs then here
you can choose them.
- [`Severity`](#severity-levels) - The nature of the reports is sorted
in different severity levels. For example, a division by zero or a null pointer
dereference is more serious than an unused variable. By this field you can
select the reports on the given severity levels.
- [`Latest Review Status`](#review-status) - You can select the reports
with the given review status to check only *False positive*, *Unreviewed*, etc.
reports.
- [`Latest Detection Status`](#detection-status) - You can select the
reports with the given detection status to check only *Unresolved*, *Resolved*,
etc. reports.
- `Analyzer name` - If you are interested in specific type of reports which

> were detected by an analyzer (Clang Tidy, CppCheck etc) then here you can

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
were detected by an analyzer (Clang Tidy, CppCheck etc.) then here you can
```

choose them.
- [`Source component`](https://github.com/Ericsson/codechecker/blob/master/docs/web/user_guide.md#source-components) -

> Here you can select multiple source components which are named collection of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here you can select multiple source components which are named collections of
```

directories specified as directory filter.
- `Checker message` - The static analysis tools provide a message to indicate
the reason of a specific bug. This message is also filterable.
- **Dates**
  - `Detection date` - Filter reports that were detected between the given
  interval.
  - `Fix date` - Filter reports that were fixed between the given interval.
- `Report hash` - Every report has a unique (hash) identifier called Report

> Identifier (RI) which can be filtered by using this input box.

Reviewer 2: If we don't use abbreviation (RI) anywhere then it may be unnecessary to introduce it.

- `Bug path length` - A bug path length interval can restrict the list of
displayed bug reports. In these fields you can choose the minimum and maximum
values of bug path length.

Every filter is collapsed by default to save more space in the UI. To expand
the filter and see the selected filter items you can click on the down arrow
(`v` icon) beside each filter name.

> ### Date filters

Reviewer 2: Date filters are described a few paragraph earlier. Even in this section the dates are described twice and these definitions may sound contradictory: storage date vs. detection date. I know that these are basically the same, but for a newcomer it may sound like "during the analysis I detect something today and I store it tomorrow, so these dates can be different". Perhaps we could use the term "storage date in the future", though "detection date" is also used throughout in the UI and other interfaces. Maybe we can bring up this question sometime.

Author: This section just collects all the date filters together. I know that these are described in the previous section but for example in this section there is a description for detection and fix dates.

Every report has a detection date and a fix date.
- `Detection date`: the storage date when the report was stored to the server
for the first time.
- `Fix date`: storage date when the report is dissapeared from a run update.

Available date filters:
- `Detection date`: get results which were detected between the given dates.
- `Fix date`: get results which were fixed between the given dates.
- `Outstanding reports on a given date`: get results which were
<i>DETECTED BEFORE</i> the given date and <i>NOT FIXED BEFORE</i> the given
date.

> ### Regex based filters

Reviewer 2: I don't know what's the official name of the `*` placeholder, but it is not a regex. Regex is something more complex and we don't support that. I'll try to find its official name and use that. Also `*` is not a quantifier (in regex it is, because there it means quantity of the preceding expression) here it is just a joker character (see the text a few lines below).

can be managed only by administrators after clicking on the pencil icon at the
Source component filter.

![Manage source components](images/reports/manage_source_components.png)

A pop-up window will be opened where you can add, edit or remove existing
source components.

![List of source components](images/reports/list_of_source_components.png)

Each line should begin with a `+` or a `-`, followed by a path glob pattern:
- `+`: *ONLY* results from the matching file paths will be listed.
- `-`: results from the matching file paths will not be listed.

For more information [see](https://github.com/Ericsson/codechecker/blob/master/docs/web/user_guide.md#format-of-component-file).

# Report details
## Report Navigation Tree
Report Navigation Tree shows the found reports at the currently opened file.
The reports are grouped by the severity level. You can navigate between them
by clicking on a node in the tree.

![Report navigation tree](images/report/report_navigation_tree.png)

## Button pane
Button Pane contains several items which help you to change or get some
property of the currently opened report.

![Button pane](images/report/button_pane.png)

### Report info

> `REPORT INFO` button shows detail information about the currently opened report

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`REPORT INFO` button shows detailed information about the currently opened report
```

such as *Report ID*, *Run name*, *Detection / Fix date* etc.

### Show documentation
`SHOW DOCUMENTATION` button shows the documentation of the actual checker which

> identified by the currently opened report.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
identified the currently opened report.
```

![Checker documentation](images/report/checker_documentation.png)

### Change review status
Reports can be assigned a review status of *Unreviewed*, *Confirmed*, *False
positive*, *Intentional* along with an optional comment on why this status was
applied.

It can be changed on the GUI or by using
[source code comments](https://github.com/Ericsson/codechecker/blob/master/docs/analyzer/user_guide.md#source-code-comments)
(*codechecker_false_positive*, *codechecker_confirmed*, etc.)

> **Note**: source code comment is stronger and can overwrite the value in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note**: source code comments have priority over the value stored in the
```

database.

> We can change the review status on the GUI from the default

Reviewer 2: This paragraph should go before the previous one because in that "Note" we describe the priorities between these two review status setting options.
